If you have ever looked up to the heavens on a clear night, you will have surely seen the Milky Way. The scientifically minded among you will know the Milky Way as the spiral arm of our very own galaxy; but those with longer memories know it as Bifröst, the bridge that connects Midgard, the Earth, the land of women and men, of girls and boys, with Asgard, the realm of the Old Norse gods, the gods of the Vikings.

Back in the days when the gods still walked the Earth, Bifröst took the form of a rainbow. Some say that gold was left as gifts, or offerings, for the gods at the end of the rainbow bridge; others say that heavy weights of gold were needed to weigh down the ends of the Milky Way, bringing it down from the heavens above to the world below; and that when the rainbow returned to the sky, where the ends had touched the earth, the gold was left behind; and if you were quick, it could still be found, just below the surface, before sinking under its own weight further and further down into the earth, deeper than even the most skilled of miners could go.

If the end of the rainbow landed at the edge of the land, half on, and half off, such as across one of the cliffs around the edge of our very own island, the weight of the gold would cause the end of the bridge to rip, or tear; and then the colour would start to drain out and leave its mark on the cliff face. If you've ever wondered how the cliff and the sands at Alum Bay got their colour, now you know.

Now you've probably all seen a rainbow during the day, but have you ever seen one at night? The Gods would rarely walk the world after dark, preferring instead to play in the heavens - you see them wandering still, in the form of the stars, and the planets, and even the constellations, as they cross the night sky. But on the rare occasions when they do come to Earth at night, they tend to come when the moon is full.

If you look carefully, with the moon full, and low in the sky, and a fine mist or damp mizzle of rain in the air, as you lose sight of the Milky Way, you may be fortunate enough to catch sight of the Bifröst come down from the sky in the form of a moonbow — a rainbow cast by the light of the moon, weighed down not by gold, but by silver. And if the moonbow just catches the end of the land, as it did once in the chalkpit that lies just at the edge of the Downs road, just before the Hare and Hounds, just a few short miles from here, you will see the silvery blue scars it left in the chalk face as the weight of the silver ripped a hole in the end of the bridge, and the blue tinged colour started to drain out.

Now I have heard it said if there is ever a Blue Moon and the Milky Way, Bifröst, the bridge between Asgard and Midgard descends back to the Earth in the form of moonbow, on those very nights, if you find the end of the moonbow before the bridge returns to span the sky, on those nights, and those nights only, then you are allowed to cross the bridge; and for one night only, visit Asgard.

But if you dally too long, you will be stuck between the Earth and the heavenly land of the gods, running hither and thither trying to find a way back, burning brightly, but briefly, as a shooting star. And that the only time you will be allowed to cross back over the bridge, from Asgard, to Midgard, will be on those rarest of rare occasions when the moon is blue three times over — the third full moon in a season of four moons, the second full moon in a calendar month, and the moon tinged blue, as the blood moon is tinged red.

So if tonight, you see a moonbow, and are tempted, or lucky enough, to find its end, and you are tempted, or lucky enough, to take a quick trip across Bifröst from Midgard, here on earth, to Asgard, the land of the Gods, remember to make it back before the moonbow lifts and returns to the sky in the form of the Milky Way.

But on the other hand, it may be safer if you just stick to the path, and follow the lead and wise words of your guide.
